# NeoRadar CLI

## What is it?

NeoRadar Command Line Tool (CLI) is a tool to perform various operations on your neoradar packages, and help with quick conversion and generation of packages from EuroScope.

Currently, the CLI allows you to:
- Create a new package and package environment from scratch
- Convert an SCT2 to NeoRadar geojson
- Convert an ESE to NeoRadar Sectorfile Extension (NSE) and to NeoRadar ATC Data
- Convert ES Alises to NeoRadar format
- Convert ICAO Aircrafts and ICAO Airlines to NeoRadar format
- Index all your geojson features into NeoRadar's map index in the NSE

It will soon cover conversions of TopSky Maps to NeoRadar.

See the manual of the tool with neoradar-cli help

## Quickstart

### Installation
The CLI requires NodeJS 22 as an environment, see NodeJS installation guides for help.

Install the CLI tool: npm install -g github:neoradar-project/cli

### Creating the new environment

Create a new package: neoradar-cli init --lat 42.000 --lon 1.000 -o ./MyNewPackage -n LFXX_FULL_PACKAGE -s lfxx

Replace lat and lon with a latitude and longitude in decimal degree of a point that is roughly at the center of the area covered by your package. Replace the value of -o with your chosen output directory, and replace -s with a short, all character namespace name that will not change between versions of your package

You will now be presented with a folder structure like below
ASRs/
euroscope_data/
icao_data/
package/
sector_files/

### Setting up the environment

Let's go through each one of them and which files the tool expects:

- ASRs/ - Place any EuroScope ASRs that will be converted to NeoRadar format when using the converter

- euroscope_data/ - Place here your aliases with a file name of Alias.txt, as well as your login profiles with a filename of LoginProfiles.txt (you can also create a folder named LoginProfiles and drop in multiple text files which will be combined with all your login profiles)

- icao_data/ - Place here your ICAO_Aircraft.txt and ICAO_Airlines.txt files. You can also add a recat.json file which can be used to map ICAO codes to a RECAT code, see the misc folder in the repository of the CLI for an example for RECAT-EU

package/ - This is where your actual package gets generated, feel free to modify and add all your necessary files in there

sector_files/ - Place here an SCT or SCT2 file, as well an ESE, the names of those file does not matter

A file called config.json is also placed at the root of the environment. Edit this file with relevant settings, you can leave publish to null if you do not intend to publish the package to an S3 endpoint. You must change the parameter sectorFileFromGNG to true if you are converting sector files that were generated by GNG.

### Running the converter

Executive neoradar-cli convert -p ./MyNewPackage

The conversion will now start, and you may be prompted with several questions. In case of errors, a log file will be created in the current working directory called neoradar-cli.log

### Preparing the package for distribution

Once your package is ready, and you have made the required changes, you can prepare the package for distribution by running the following command:

neoradar-cli distribute -p ./MyNewPackage

This will create a polished ZIP file containing your package, the content of which you can drop in NeoRadar/packages and start using!